my mission is simple to make you money
I'm here to level the playing field for
all investors there's always a bulwark
at summer and I promise to help you find
it Mad Money starts now
hey I'm Kramer welcome to me of money
welcome to Kramer I want to make friends
I'm just trying to help you save some
money my job is not just to put in
context and entertain but to educate and
teach you so call me at one eight
hundred seven four three CBC or tweet me
at Jim Kramer after the worst day since
the crash of 87 second worst day ever
with the Dow plunging nearly 3,000
points to the lowest close in two years
ssp plummeting eleven point nine percent
no Nasdaq nose-diving twelve points B
two percent but truly sickening day with
a horrendous last hour it's finally
dawning on people that we're in a real
crisis year I've been telling you that
this pandemic could be real bad news for
stocks since I came back from that
Superbowl chasing that we were under
estimating the coming outbreak they
could send us into eight well I'm going
to say a recession because I think that
it's pretty obvious that well that's
kind of where we're going you know the
people did underestimate the coming
outbreak and I've got to tell you that
as far as I'm concerned it really isn't
one of these situations where we can
just kind of ride it out we have to
think about it we got to figure out what
to do we got to work together and I've
got some ideas they're not simple ideas
they're ideas involving opportunity
they're ideas involving what I regard as
being let's just say some things that
happen that are good when the market
goes down but we're not ready yet now
first let's talk about what went wrong
here I mean I've been saying that we
were going to underestimate this this
situation I've told you I told you that
this market was headed back to two lows
we made the last time we were on the eve
of recession the December of 2018 we've
now taken out those lows and we can go
lower because this is worse than the Fed
mandated slowdown we had back then the
markets fiercely trying to adjust to the
vast economic downturn that is the only
way to beat kovat and we're jesting
we're not there yet
the average is likely won't bottom and
some more people adjust to the new
normal that I've been warning you about
for weeks but this is big but at this
point after the dramatic heart-stopping
sell-off maybe we gotta start thinking
maybe it's too late too late too
CEL unless we get a short sharp squeeze
that was an remember that was a short
squeeze that we had on Friday yeah but
these levels when everyone's cashing in
their chips and total panic and furious
redemptions you need to start
considering what to buy when the when
the bad kovat and economic numbers come
out in the next few weeks and there's
gonna be bit look I think one of the
things that really drove the market down
was when the president talked about so
why people are really saying hey this is
create lasts forever it may not do that
or it may anticipate July so we got to
be ready so then you probably say well
Jim you sound more constructive than you
Sam I mean the block it's so horrible
well I'm a little more constructive
constructive because I'm like the last
big recession this time I find that the
people in charge the real policy makers
actually understand that something needs
to be done see in 2007 the Fed and the
White House were asleep at the wheel
totally I'm willing to lift a finger to
stop the oncoming disaster this time is
different
hey whether you love Trump or hate him
it's not about him everyone want to make
it about it I'm gonna take another tack
I think it's about the professionals
people like Fed chief Jerome Powell well
I've been critical of but he can make
more of a difference than anyone the
White House when it comes economy what
do I mean I first yesterday I derived
the degree of comfort from the actions
of the Fed chief that everyone seemed to
pooh-pooh and make fun of today I mean
give me a break with they were loving
all the other stuff he was doing that I
didn't like this I like the Fed made
some historic moves last night and those
moves worked we knew they work why
because your bank open for business this
morning and let me tell you something it
probably wouldn't have all day I heard
that your own pals emergency rate cuts
and liquidity injection somehow failed
because the stock market kind of
literary are you kidding me hey it was
good he wasn't trying to save the stock
market read mistake you're trying to
prevent bank runs try to make the
Treasury market work believe me they
were gonna happen the Fed had done this
in 2007 he wouldn't had to quit with the
worst downturn since the Great
Depression
pal took another financial crisis off
the table thank heavens there will be
plenty of losses they'll be locked tons
of bankruptcies and ballooning
unemployment but because pals got his
eyes on the prize providing liquidity
where it's needed we have one less
horrible thing to worry about and that's
a big horrible second this morning I
spoke to Treasury secretary Steve
munition about his plans to stabilize
not not the markets but the small
business base of this country again
people think he wants to stabilize
stocks that's not what the games about I
want to stabilize Docs
I can't nobody
but he like what the Fed did and he made
that point labeling something a
recession doesn't really advance the
ball I like that I mentioned them what
we really have is a hiatus in business
hopeful have so much Dimas that at some
point we also will be able to look
through the current weakness and started
racing companies great balance sheets
that can thrive when the hiatus is over
or when the numbers level off it was
remembered trying to flatten the curve I
know it's too early for all that stuff
we've taken out the lows from December
2018 but this panic is much worse than
that panic because this time there won't
be huge layoffs in bankruptcies that
never got to it last time because the
Fed Chase's view hopefully though
senator in addition speaker Pelosi can
agree to a giant stimulus package that
will time working people over until we
contain the virus and by the way could
someone understand you know the payroll
tax deduction that's good if you have a
job now after 1099 and not if you don't
have a job so they got to think a little
bigger down there
wish I were down there just knock some
heads together we get this thing
straight now put it all together and I
think there are real opportunities
developing over with missus think Bernie
Sanders you I've developed me out there
with the averages down 30 percent from
the highs the VIX fear gates highest
level ever worst day since 87 a day that
felt a lot like today when I traded it
so yes there are opportunities here but
there now and you won't be able to catch
them using broad index funds this is a
time to pick individual winners and
losers it's 60 percent of stocks are own
fee is some sort of index fund for years
we've been told we're morons for trying
to pick stops and the best you can do is
hope to mirror the performance supporter
averages but the problem with the index
funds is you never Lyon both the winners
and losers and the difference between
winners and losers has become a to start
for that to make any sense that's when
the opportunity comes in people
there are many industries that are truly
on the ropes here and I expect them to
remain on the ropes for a long time
unless they fall flat on the canvas if
you invest in S&P 500 index fund you
have to in the pad the very bad the
disasters and small group of easy
identify winners why own all the losers
I don't want to own any of the airline
stocks to you this feels a lot like the
aftermath of 9/11 nobody wanted to fly
and the industry was crippled sure they
eventually bounced back but only after
15 billion dollar bailout we're only on
one maybe day three of what's looking
like a total collapse in air travel
don't try to be here or there of course
where the president stands behind them
100% I don't want anything airspace
either now with Boeing struggling debt
being downgraded that's it that's a bad
one
that's like 2007
I know we should want the sale well it's
another problem I can't if he's driving
up a Saudi Arabia and Russia are
flooding the world with supply you don't
want to own any of the oils here to
super bounce back you just hope they
don't bleed into all the other parts of
the finance world
same goes restaurants entertainment I
just got word from your city we have to
close a restaurant in our bar too many
people gathering I wish and social
distancing makes this whole group on
investable Penn National Gaming is the
paradigm they give this great hook up
with barstool for sports betting but now
that remains canceled there's nothing to
bet on this stock was at $39 last month
and eight bucks today someone upgraded
Las Vegas Sands today really retail same
problem nobody feels like buy an
anything unless ordered from Amazon that
will change them I think there will soon
be so much excess inventory that the off
price houses will be able to offer cash
grab consumers some truly incredible
deals but we're not there yet for the
moment the whole industry is toxic
consider Macy's is now fall in 75%
sports the 22.5% you calls us down 74%
14% yield Nordstrom's all 60 percent
nine percent yield nearly those stocks
are all screaming that the earnings are
in danger and dividends wants to be cut
retail so disaster with the exception of
the largest companies I know the banks
are cheap and now that the feds take an
action I believe they'll come out hole
given that the feds willing to throw
money in but until other people start
agreeing with me
there'll be soso investments at best
more like you fodder for the Bears
before the bottom no it's not 2009 when
many of these banks were in single
digits
however they lost the principal support
when they pledged to stop buying back
stock let that sink him autos hum please
please other parts suppliers now
commodity candles enough paper cannot
steal now I think maybe I'm too bearish
I don't well let's listen Jim federally
you have since CEO of Dow Chemical later
in the show tap too hard a probably too
soon although I said last week buying
the fastest growing text is often the
best way to play a spring-loaded rebound
but you have to be prepared to lose
money before we get there and I bet you
99% of you aren't willing to and you
better start learning how to do it with
all these sectors that are too tough
though and if the data is just getting
going to get worse and it is we're gonna
see the denominator get big all that
other stuff it's like Jesus like algebra
why have I tell you to be opportunistic
okay did you know that the makers of
literally everything you might find the
supermarkets sold their stocks drop in
unison this morning that got hammered
because they're part of the MCS then the
stock pickers came in the packaged food
companies rally furiously on the August
and
and so many the drug stocks did well
they keep back their gains from late
afternoon
some of them close to big I like ConAgra
I know needle in the haystack but come
on we look we look for needles what do
we do here okay I think we're going to
get some big Khurana virus numbers now
that we're really gonna test people's
strength and earnest we get more
lockdowns like in San Francisco we may
not even be able to shop although I
think grocery stores will still be open
we'll hear her readiness reports from
every part of the country because we
underestimated how bad it was gonna be
but well some of us did but today gave
us a template for what works when the
economy's on hiatus the stocks and
companies that make parts we can't live
without check out your medicine cabinet
check your fridge or look at your pantry
bottom line honorific day where the
averages are down 12 to 13 percent we
shouldn't we got to stop buying average
instead we should buy quality
recession-proof stocks because that's
what works when the economies won't hate
us time a whole time to hold your nose
and buy a couple of winners get started
and flu losers I say no more selling no
more selling without a big update like
we had on Friday to get you better
prices then you can expect into the
teeth of this panic let's go to channel
hi oh please Jay well we got ya how's it
going well Jeff had looks slightly
better days but you know I'm still
around how are you I'm doing well thank
you hey I got a quick question for you
interested in adding silver or gold into
my portfolio trying to diversify up my
investment just want to get your
thoughts about the precious metal market
right now in which that's the best way
to invest in core people have given up
in the precious metals because they
think they were in a terrible
deflationary storm and I say you know
what I always find room for gold I think
that you want to own gold and I don't
mind that gold is going down I think you
buy some right into this weakness I
actually think the barrick gold bottoms
and that's how it was by gol D my gosh
you don't need if it's a proof tape
right stick to the quality recession
proof stocks as they come
hey this is what you have to buy into
those openings when we're frozen down 7%
that's what worked it'll work again on
man
tonight America's capacity Technica
rotavirus we get a big bump blue thermo
Fisher after it receives an emergency
okay
put us up to five million test kits a
week I've got this who's with the CEO
then the head of CBS Health Net with
Trump last week to discuss the ways to
combat the corona virus I'm gonna talk
about the company's latest issues and
the teeth of demand crushing global
pandemic how is it company like Dallas
to see itself I'm talking with the CEO
so stay with Kramer don't miss a second
of Mad Money follow at Jim Cramer on
Twitter have a question
tweet Kramer hashtag mad tweets send Jim
an email to mad money at cnbc.com or
give us a call at one eight hundred
seven forty three CNBC miss something
head to Mad Money does cnbc.com
you